This is John. He's a good friend and he
said a video hit 1 million plus views on
his channel with less than 10 videos.
And his channel was making $5,000 a
month. But since then, he's changed
niches twice and he now makes $0 a
month, which is a no bueno. So, he came
to me to get more direction on how to
get more consistent with posting, how to
monetize his audience for the long term,
and how to improve the packaging of his
videos. Welcome, John. Thanks for coming
on the channel.
>> Yeah, thank you for having me. So when
I'm trying to figure out how we can, you
know, kind of revive a channel, I always
want to ask myself, what is the goal of
the channel? So let's take a look at
here. What is your goal of your channel
here?
>> Yeah. So I have uh a few different
goals. Uh the first goal is to have
consistency with the content. I mean
over the past two years it's been a lot
of on and off and plus like YouTube was
a was a passion project at first and
then later on I was like how can I
incorporate this into like business or
Yeah. And so it it took a lot of
preparation like pre pre-production then
the post-production and then finding the
right editors. And so I like throughout
this time I was trying like different
editors for videos and like early on I
was editing myself just like playing
around with it. And uh the second video
that I ever like made um it it just blew
up because I think it was a very unique
topic that people really enjoyed. And
then um there on I was like oh you know
I'm I at the at during this time of like
my channel I was really into
productivity how to optimize your life
and started doing that and then didn't
really get you know too good of results.
So then I pivoted back to the education
thing then it got like more views than
the previous ones and then I was like I
really don't want to talk about the
school stuff anymore and then started to
slowly pivot out of it again. And then
like the the overall goal of the channel
is like educating my audience and uh
like bringing them valuable information
and uh throughout this process like you
know what what what can I do to build
like long-term consistency without like
these bigger gaps like as you can see
like nine months ago that was a house
video then 3 months ago was the AI video
and then Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, when you say that you want to
educate your audience, let's get more
specific there, right? And and I'm going
to hammer in on what the goal is of the
channel and what the mission is of the
channel, right? Because when you think
about it from a likability point of view
and like building an audience that you
know will serve you in the long term,
right? I mean, first of all,
[clears throat] like building an
audience for the long term isn't easy,
right? Having an audience to stay with
you for like 1, two, three, four, five
years, 10 years isn't the easiest thing
in the world, but it pays you a lot of
dividends, right? Because um they are
people who understand you. They know
your story. Uh they know that you're a
subject matter expert, right? And they
know that uh you're someone to trust,
right? I'm sure that this one video that
you got 1.4 million views with,
>> like I'm sure there's people who have
like came up to you and like, "Hey, I
watched that video of yours."
>> Right? So, like when you say you want to
educate your audience, what does that
mean specifically? What do you want to
educate your audience around? And just
to rephrase that and maybe make it more
specific, what do you want to be what do
you want your brand to be known for?
>> Yeah. So, um the brand that I'm going
for is the automated founder. And so,
right now, uh where the future is going,
there's a lot of uh changes in AI. And
you know, as a AI entrepreneur, I think
that this really aligns with like where
I want to go with the channel. Yeah. And
then also um another topic I'm bringing
in uh because I have another company
that I'm developing uh is is around
Bitcoin and like around monetary policy
and like educating people why like where
inflation is going and like how AI also
plays a huge role into the future of
like how people will live work and um
how do you automate these
complex processes in your business and
your life and then also how do you
compete against AI and while storing
your like money in a sound way where it
doesn't get inflated away with with uh
Yeah.
>> Okay. So, you want your content to be
around AI and Bitcoin,
>> correct?
>> Okay. If you were to look at this
channel like doing like a self
diagnosis, like what's the problem with
the channel?
>> So, yeah, looking at it, it's it's a lot
of uh different topics. It's bounced a
lot around and uh originally I was going
for like breaking the system, like
thinking outside the box. How can we
like yeah like do some things that are
like unconventional like buying a house
at 20 graduating college in one year and
then now it's like uh in a way
also in that direction of like breaking
systems with like automating stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> And like Yeah.
>> Okay. So there's a lot of variation in
terms of the topic. It
>> there is.
>> But if you were to boil down what is
like the main bottleneck for this
channel like what would you say it is
>> the main bottleneck? like what what is
it that you can okay if we start doing
will instantly get us a lot more growth
>> uh definitely producing more videos
>> okay so yeah the answer is producing
more videos right and and for some
context John is my roommate and I
[clears throat] like to needle him right
I get I like to tell him like hey why
don't you post videos and and one of the
things that I told him hey we start this
conversation with is it's why don't we
post more
right because if you look here we
haven't posted a video in a month. We
haven't posted a video in two months,
but we have some validation over here
that how AI will destroy the 5.7 uh 5.75
trillion uh dollar industry, right? We
have some validation here that your
audience actually wants the topic of AI,
right? Which is in the direction that
you're going. So like it kind of begs
the question like okay if we know that
something works within your audience and
a lot of and and you're actually in a
very privileged position I would say
that because like most people after not
having posted for 6 months right which
is 9 months going to 3 months the
following video that you post would be
[__] right and like the video wouldn't
perform because your audience hasn't
seen you right and and your your video
actually has like a banger idea and the
video actually outperformed so you would
have gone from having all this momentum
them from getting 1.4 million
subscribers uh 1.4 4 million views,
sorry. Uh to okay, like the channel kind
of flatlining a little bit and then you
actually pick up this momentum, right?
And one of the things that I think is
the hardest to get back on YouTube is
momentum, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Because when you see that something
starts taking off and you know, things
only start taking off for a long time
and um and like things only take off for
so long and if you don't ride the
momentum, that momentum dies and you got
to like rebuild that momentum. That's
why like kind of like what what your
channel has seen is that there's a big
spike second video. Yeah.
>> Right. If this was the actual audience
that you wanted to build,
>> double down.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. You double down and then Okay,
maybe 1.4 million views, next video gets
maybe 200,000 views, 300,000 views.
>> Sure.
>> Which would have already exceeded all of
all of these other videos that you would
have posted
>> combined. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So like why why have we
struggled to double down on a concept
that has worked?
>> So I think um I've chatted with like
other friends of mine around this. Um so
I got viral on the second video which
you know this channel was just like a
fun little hobby experimentation.
>> Yeah. And then, you know, I started just
creating content around topics I enjoyed
and then uh then the audience didn't
necessarily follow because like a lot of
people found my channel because of this
one. And so like they expected like more
videos on this and then as you can see
like later on that video uh the the
second school video I made like got more
views than the previous ones combined.
And so,
um, I I think it's also like I lost
passion for this because like I'm not in
school anymore. I I don't need to
educate um students on how to get
college credits and plus they're not a
very profitable niche.
>> Like they don't really have money to
spend. Like I I built a course around
this and like you know it it did well
for a little bit and then you know as it
went on I just don't have the energy and
it's not the best use of my time. So um
that so one is like the topic like the
topic died out and then the passion of
me making more videos around this topic
didn't really feel like it was alive and
then now like as I enter into like I
don't know my my early 20s doing other
things um you know buying a house and
then like um where I'm going with like
with AI and like entrepreneurship I feel
like that is more relevant and like more
I can provide more value to people
>> and Uh yeah, even if like the audience
was like from two years ago, I'm sure
some of them a cohort of them have
graduated and they might be interested
in these topics. Like AI is affecting a
lot of people for sure in today's life.
You know, people home buying is a is
another topic like how do you how do you
how do you become more productive? How
can you like learn faster, better, and
like
>> optimize your life?
>> Yeah. So it sounds like
the problem that you're facing is that
you have all of these different
interests, right? It's not just like
like what you mentioned is like okay
like I want the channel to be around
yeah and Bitcoin but you also have
productivity interest and kind of your
interest shifts from one thing to the
next because initially like okay you
were a student that's like the phase of
life and then okay interested in
productivity and then you also had a
real estate business right which which
you know which you know I bought a house
at 20
>> and then you have an AI company right
and you're you have interest in AI
>> and you also mentioned that okay
>> I want to have Bitcoin do. So, it's like
you want to build the brand around you,
but you haven't found an audience that
that can follow along through this
journey.
>> Yeah. Of all of these different topics.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Would you consider that to be a
struggle?
>> Um, yeah, absolutely. I I think um yeah,
bringing the audience from like the past
videos onto like the new ones, it'll
take time. Um, and like I think as you
said me as you mentioned earlier on
building momentum like right now there's
I' I've been building like catalog of
video ideas and then starting to like
film more and then now I can have a
backlog of like
>> really interesting topics that can be
like scheduled out in a cadence rather
than the spontaneous like 11 months ago,
nine months ago, three months ago
because like these ideas came to mind
and then like I would post them and then
I would lose the momentum and then I
think of another idea and then it just
bounced a lot.
>> Yeah. So, it's like I guess having a
content machine that is built around
your thoughts, right, and your different
interests and also like finding pockets
of your audience that are interested in
all facets of you because I'd imagine,
>> right, from what it looks like when you
started posting productivity content,
eh, like audience didn't respond to it.
And then if you were to post AI and
Bitcoin content and if the audience
doesn't respond to it, would it be
reasonable to say that you'd also be
like, h, I don't really want to film
because like people aren't really
responding to it.
>> Yeah. I mean that that could be a
possibility like I I mean I I mean the
honor the answer is yes right because
historically right this is this is how
we've acted and we were like okay like
if this is historically how we acted and
if the videos that we post following
don't perform it's actually highly
likely that you'll that he'll just like
give up again right and and that's a
possibility right and that's like
understanding the patterns that you have
with regards to how you actually you
know perform on camera like where do you
like script the videos or whether you
actually post the videos like all of a
sudden like if the videos aren't
performing it's like suddenly it's not a
hurry because it doesn't it's not
building the long-term rack
>> right
>> I mean yeah like like uh it wouldn't
give me the the the feedback or like the
the
>> the positive feedback
>> the positive feedback of letter dude
like people love the
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And of course like the positive
feedback loop is important.
>> It it absolutely is. I I I wanted my
videos to perform well too.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> but it's also posting in spite of
knowing like, you know, despite the
video might that might not
>> that might not perform, right? So, if I
were to go that route Yeah.
>> and like let's say like the next 10
videos, which is what I'm doing now.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I post them there. They're meant to
be evergreen. So, like people can come
back to the channel and rewatch it.
>> Yeah. And like even if like the next 10
doesn't do so well or like it builds
like what wouldn't like I think the goal
here is just to build that momentum
because this these are topics I really
am passionate about. Yeah.
>> Like I spend most of my day on it. So
>> um versus like yeah the the previous
topic I mean it's no longer very
relevant in my life. this is like a
temporary boost in a way of like me
diving into my interests and then this
is like a real life thing and yeah and
then like now like with AI being such a
big thing in in many people's lives and
yeah you know unemployment's rising and
like money is a big issue like how how
do how do younger generations afford
>> um certain things or like get ahead or
uh even like stay afloat in all the
different changes that are happening. I
want to be uh someone that can give
really valuable
>> feedback that I've I've received
throughout my life and experience and
like share it with others.
>> Yeah. I I I think it's I think it's
both, right? Like what what I'm hearing
is that there's there's two problems
that that you're really like trying to
balance. It's that one is like what's
interesting for your audience and two
it's what's interesting for you.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Yeah. And like like this isn't
something that that we've that we talked
about previously, but it's like how do
you find both? Because if you just find
what's interesting to your audience,
like it sounds like it's important to
you to make stuff that's interesting to
you, right? It it it is. Um Okay. So if
if you only make what your audience is
interested in, but
>> it's making school videos up to today
like
>> Yeah. You could be making school videos,
right? But but you don't care about and
that's what you base on right now.
>> Yeah. And and it's also like what's
what's within your interest and then
like okay like that's like the sweet
spot
>> right
>> for you.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
It's actually a pretty easy I wouldn't
say it's easy problem to solve but like
it's definitely solvable.
>> Okay.
>> Right. Because when you think about it
from a YouTube perspective and we can we
can get into kind of the weeds here.
Like when you think about it from a
YouTube perspective like what the
audience cares about is whether they
click the video or not. So the title and
thumbnail and that's where you got to
spend more time on because I actually
don't think that you have a problem
coming up with the content because I
know you you read a bunch of stuff here
on Twitter a bunch and like you actually
don't have problem coming up the
content,
>> right?
>> Yeah, I have a lot of materials.
>> Yeah, you have a lot of materials.
Sounds like it's a packaging problem in
terms of how do you take your thoughts
>> interesting? Okay.
>> And then package it into a video that
people will actually click,
>> right? Because like here for example
this video this this will compound your
learning right why you procrastinate
even when it feels bad right like these
these aren't like small topics right
these these aren't like small total
addressable market
>> in a world of infinite possibility could
this video have gotten a million views
why autographs is bad because yes this
is a productivity video right but and
and I'm sure like okay like maybe you
didn't put enough time to content this
month or maybe you didn't put enough
money into the editing but I feel like
That's not that's not a big problem for
you. But it's like, hey, how can you
package your thoughts that okay, you
already know what you're interested in,
>> right?
>> How do you package it in a way that
interests an audience?
>> Okay.
>> So, right now, I know you spend a lot of
time on scripting the videos and
recording the videos.
>> Okay. Spend more time packaging, like
aligning it with my past content and
audience better. aligning it with the
audience that you want to that you want
to
>> attract. Okay.
>> Right. Yeah. Because it's not just like
>> aligning it with my existing audience
and future audience that I want to
track.
>> Well, you always want to look at what's
the future audience that you want to
track.
>> Okay.
>> Right. And ideally, there's some
overlap, right? And sure, your current
audience is okay like school students
and then there's like some interested in
AI, but you actually have validation
that within your school audience there's
some people it actually broke out of
your current audience because this has
74k views. Yeah, like AI comp that
there's actually interest in your
channel for AI stuff which makes sense
because students probably either are
still in school or they're looking to
graduate.
>> Right. Right. They're entering into
their early profession.
>> Yeah. Which AI is disrupting a lot,
right? So, it makes sense that the AI
video will perform well. Would I have
expected it to perform that well? No.
Maybe probably not because the audience
isn't an immediate match.
>> Yeah. Right? But there's some proof that
actually, hey, if we were to package it
correctly, right, with a topic that my
audience is interested in,
>> we'd actually stand a chance to create
something my audience is interested in,
your audience is interested in,
>> and this be a topic they're interested
because I'm sure you spend a bunch of
time scripting this
>> and you also invested, you know, in
editing and and like
>> um Yeah. So it's just
>> it just did very well and then I was
like
>> yeah okay was happy with that.
>> Okay. So if this video performed well
why why' you stop posting? So, uh, I
think the the gap here is also like
>> there's a lot of AI content out
>> there right now. And, um, one of the
things I was like struggling to come up
with was like good topics that aligned
with like what is going on and like
things are changing so fast that like
when I put together a script and then
like a week later a lot of things would
be irrelevant. So then it became the
challenge of how can I make it more
evergreen and like more future focused
and like I don't know macro trends on
where thing things are heading that
people will go through it. It's like
educational. It's like wow that's very
interesting. And so this one like
there's a lot of stories involved.
There's like characters involved like it
was like give it was like educating them
on like
>> the why this is happening. Um, and so I
I thought, okay, if this did so well, I
should create another video like this.
>> But I think it was like the the
overthinking and the perfectionism that
also stopped. So, which is another one
of my big problems, which is
overthinking and perfectionism. Um, I
think early on I spent like a month on
each video.
>> Yeah. like I I took way more time than
necessary and then also uh because of
that I lost like momentum and motivation
because like oh it takes so long and
then like it didn't get any views like
why am I doing this and then it was like
that makes sense.
>> Yeah. Okay. So I mean like looking
towards the future would you agree that
it is important to find a consistent
cadence?
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. So, like right
now, uh, what I've done is, uh, I laid
out like the next 10 videos that are
that that align with those principles
that I just laid out there. Yeah.
>> And I think it's important. So, now like
with a backlog of videos, so like I'm
filming it so that I don't have like I
disconnect the positive feedback loop
with views with like effort. So because
I disconnected that I can now focus on
just creating get quality content and
then like the views are irrelevant
because it's going to be scheduled out
like every like two weeks or a month
like out. So then like there will be
that consistency and then the audience
can then follow that consistency or
cadence.
>> Yeah.
>> So I think that's the strategy I'm going
with. I don't know if it's going to you
know well I I would say like
>> like pick a cadence and just stick to
it.
>> Okay.
>> Right. What's a cadence that you're
comfortable with that you can commit to
for the next 12 months? Is it one video
a month? Is it two videos a month? Is it
four videos a month? Right? Because like
like for me, I run my this current
YouTube channel. You guys are watching.
So, I run this current YouTube channel.
The cadence that I've committed to is
four videos a month. Okay? And that's
like the baseline. And I know from the
baseline, am I performing or
underperforming? In the month of
September, I uploaded four videos for
the first time in like 12 months. took
me a really long time to get to four
videos a month, right? Four quality
videos a month, right? And in the month
of October, okay, I only have three
uploads a month, right? And if I have
that baseline, okay, in the month of
October, I have three uploads. Why am I
lacking in terms of this? And then I can
immediately immediately see in my
workflow what's the bottleneck. Is it a
recorded bottleneck? Is my editors
taking too long? Is my thumbnails not
coming back satisfactory? So, I have to
delay the the posting of my video. you
need to have a baseline and then every
single month you hit baseline or you go
over baseline and if you're under
baseline you kind of see hey why have I
not hit this baseline so I would say
what is something that you can commit to
posting cadence wise
>> yeah I think I think every two weeks
okay so good two videos a month
>> two videos a month and then depending on
how things go I can yeah as you said
increase that cadence go over the
baseline Okay. Why have we decided to to
to do two videos a month?
>> Four, why not one?
>> Why four? Why not one? Uh, four, I
think, would be too much and I would
like overcommit. One would be I think
might lose the audience a little bit if
it's like too far out as I've done in
the past. Um, I feel like every two
weeks there is that like refreshment of
like, you know, my face back in their
feed and then like like yeah, I'm not
forgotten in in their in their minds.
Um, and yeah, like pre-production,
post-production, like editing. I think
two weeks is like a perfect timeline to
like get videos out. And then yeah, like
right now with like the 10 I'm I'm like
bulking up right now. Yeah,
>> it'll be perfect because that sets me up
for the next five months and
>> Okay, it's perfect. Yeah. Okay. So, so
when we say we're going to do a two two
videos a month, you know, one every two
weeks, we have to like ruthlessly stick
to it, right?
>> Yeah.
>> We're like serious. Okay. Like I want to
be a thought leader in the AI Bitcoin
space. I want this channel to be
thriving, right? Because over the course
of uh two years or so, we've only posted
10 videos right now. Right. So, it's
right. Okay. That's something that
point. 100%. Right? And and you know,
and and one of the things that I told
you before this is like, hey, if my
latest video got 74K views and then I
stopped posting, if I posted 10 videos
in a row, maybe not maybe not all of
them would have reached 74K views. Sure.
But if every video hit 10K views, which
I don't think it's unreasonable to say
that every video might hit 10K views,
>> right? You would have missed out on
100,000 views.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. You're
right. And and this is a hundred
thousand people that could have like
watch you love your stuff that could
have led to a certain deal happening,
right? Sure. With with your businesses
or you know across like the next 10
years or so, which is the plan to
continue running this channel for a long
time.
>> Yeah.
>> To actually like create that kind of
deal flow or create that kind of
audience, right? And we can only do that
if we actually stick towards like a a
consistent posting cadence that okay you
commit to you know that is within your
capabilities
>> and then you just execute on it.
>> Yeah. Does that make sense?
>> It does. It does.
>> Okay. Okay. So if we solve the
consistent posing cadence problem.
>> Y I think so.
>> Two video mods.
>> Yep.
>> We will do this pod in a year again and
we will see. [laughter]
>> And we'll see if we hit the two video
months.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> Okay. Yeah. because because I think this
channel actually has potential.
>> You think I have potential?
>> 70K subscribers,
>> 74K views in the last three months,
right? And and this and this video and
and this is with you having not hosted
and you're in a very like untapped
niche. I would consider AI to be very
untapped niche. The total addressable
market is planet Earth of people who
would want to watch AI stuff, right? And
then being a thought leader within this,
there's actually a lot of potential,
right? And it's not like you're starting
from zero, right? and you've like never
posted a video, you never made a YouTube
video before.
>> Yeah.
>> Like you have gotten a million views.
Like literally no one ever gets a
million views. Like I have only scripted
one other video that has gotten a
million views in the educational space.
So it's it's very very rare to get a
million views. So it's not like you
don't understand this storytelling
stuff, right? It's just a matter of
puckering down like figuring out what my
long-term goal is and then sticking to
the short-term actions that will lead to
the long-term goal. Makes sense.
>> Yeah, it does. It does. Cool. Okay. Now,
let's let's talk a little bit about
packaging.
>> Okay.
>> What is the struggle with packaging your
videos? What is the methodology and how
can you improve it?
>> Yeah. So, um I I was I mean you can see
somewhat of a theme here based on
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Like there's this black
background. There's like common images
that you know like the brain for
example. I thought that would be a good,
you know, way to package the video, make
it look like crisp, nicer than um yeah,
like there I I've tested out different
thumbnails and like color schemes and uh
yeah, the so far like you know I did
there's a lot of green and like the past
videos there's like the white the the
black background. Um, I think I should
AB test that some more. You guys, I
don't know if uh Yeah, I mean you like
you don't really need AB testing, right?
I mean, like first of all, we we don't
we don't have enough data, right? And
and we're just kind of like looking at
the videos that we have and like this to
me looks like a problem of like there's
no like brand scheme is what you're
saying.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. They're held a brand. Okay. So,
we got to put together brand identity.
>> Right. Right.
>> Do you have a brand identity put
together? Yeah.
>> What's
>> the automated founder? That's like the
direction I'm going now.
>> Okay.
>> So, it's AI macroeconomics, macro
trends, and AI.
>> Good. Okay. But like what's like the
brand? What's the visual identity of the
brand? You have
>> visual identity of the brand.
>> Yeah. I think um sticking with this
exact Oh, the answer is no. You don't
have a brand identity because if you
look at the thumbnails, the thumbnails
don't reflect the brand identity.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Right. Right. Because the thumbnails is
a certain type of branding, right? When
you look at any given channel, it should
be obvious as to whose channel you're
watching.
>> Sure.
>> Right.
>> Should I redo these thumbnails to patch
the new
>> Well, I I I would I would only like redo
them like down the line once you have
like the next 10 videos up and you want
to look at your backlog. Okay.
>> Right. But I would I would like focus on
the next couple videos and I would ask
myself, hey, what's the visual identity
that I want to build? What's my main
color scheme? Right. And then like
really like a color scheme will get you
like 80% of the way there, right? Color
scheme and the font. Sure. Right. Like
you actually have pretty consistent font
across yours. So I'll give you that.
>> But it's like okay like if you want to
have like a green scheme, right? And
then you can do green and then the
background can be a contrasting color of
green.
>> Okay.
>> Right. Right. I think I think that will
make sense. Or you can see over here
this video might get a lot of views.
Right. But it doesn't match with the
>> Yeah. But because it doesn't match the
other color scheme, I bet the returning
viewers from this specific video would
be a lot lower.
>> Right. Oh, and also because like uh the
rest of your thumbnails look like uh you
did it in Photoshop whereas this this
looks more like an AI thumbnail. Yeah.
>> So there's also there also isn't
consistency there. Got it.
>> Right. And the importance of consistency
is that when you know when like
audiences come to you for familiarity,
>> right?
>> Right. You like eating the same burger
every time because the burger tastes
good. Right. You're not going to go out
there and go find another burger. Yeah.
>> Right. So, if the burger tastes good,
I'm going to go to the burger every
single time because I know I'm never
going to get disappointed, right? And
I'm going to get my protein and my fat
in, right? And and and so I can pile up
more of my fat deposits and it's going
to be very very easy to do that.
>> But if there isn't like a clear
consistent visual identity,
>> it's hard to get returning viewers.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. If I go to a restaurant and the
menu changes every time, I'm going to
like, what the [__] I really liked the
burger, isn't it?
>> It's a Michelin star restaurant.
>> Unless it's a Michelin star restaurant,
in which case it's a little different,
>> you know, but you know, trying to make
that sense. Yeah. The audience is like
consistency. They want to see the
>> Exactly. And and so like like so first
thing that I would do in terms of
packaging.
>> Okay.
>> I would have a color scheme.
>> Okay. I would figure out a format that
works in terms of you know in terms of
attracting like the same audience come
come back over and over and over again.
Okay.
>> Right. And then there are a bunch of AI
AI channels and it begins.
>> So for example a channel like this right
species
>> we love love that
>> right? like this channel is absolutely
ripping, right?
>> And you see the the actually oh there's
actually like a consistency here. So
whenever you do whenever you do a trend
here, right? You can see that there it's
the graph the black background and the
red, white and green,
>> right? So there there is consistency
over here and this is them testing
different formats, right? This is them
testing different formats. But you can
see here in general the color scheme is
is pretty is pretty similar. And like I
I feel like when you stray away from
that like for example this thumbnail,
right? Maybe it's the idea problem, but
292K views, it's uh it's one one of the
lower performers. And like when you
stray from from the main trend that your
audience is here for like the views
start. Yeah. Yeah. So like these dipped
like I feel like this one aligns with
>> Yeah. Yeah. But you know, this one this
one is is a pretty it's pretty bang
idea. So I'm sure there's definitely a
bunch of factors that go into it. But
okay. But whenever you stray from this
main format that you went mega viral
with two 3.7 million views like the
videos just tend to perform like
substantially worse. This was the first
breakout video, right? So like it shows
like okay when there's visual identity
you just double triple down on the
visual identity
>> and that brings back uh an audience that
will come back over and over and over
again.
>> Right. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So and and this is within your
niche so we know that. And then we also
like look at all the small things,
right? like when when we go into your
channel uh the first thing that I that I
come here like what I would fix is what
I immediately see when I come into your
channel. So, for example, this video
here that that it's tagged over here,
you might have it as a random video.
Yeah. But it should be about who you are
or what this channel is talking about,
right? There's a video closest to that.
Okay. For example, the AI takeover video
might pro would probably be the closest
to
>> better than now.
>> Yeah. Okay. It would be better than this
because when I hop on your channel, I
think, okay, this guy's on vacation and
then I see all of your videos and
they're on Yeah. Right. And you can see
for you, right? I would just delete all
of this from your homepage. Delete all
this from your homepage. Okay?
>> Delete all this from your home page and
your post. I would just delete all this
from from your homepage. Okay?
>> And I would add a playlist of what you
want your viewers to binge.
>> For example, if you go to
>> So I would give them other videos
like my videos and like a
>> so so so it it would just be be the
channels that that you've done. So if
you look here, right, immediately when
you go on the subscriber channel, right,
you can kind of see the banner says
foster better YouTube script. So it's
very clear in terms of what the value
prop is.
>> Yeah.
>> And then when you go into the
description, right, there it's a very
clear description written over here. And
then there's only one link for them to
go to,
>> right? So it's very clear what they
should go towards. Got it.
>> And then on the homepage, you can see
here it starts with what is subscriber
is the most left video. M
>> so that's the first video that they'll
be recommended when they come into your
channel and immediately they know how to
grow a YouTube channel of AI so there's
no distractions it's very you you okay
you built a tutorial
>> yeah so yeah so you can build a tutorial
streamline you can just have five videos
here in one playlist and create a
playlist
>> like how to be productive all the videos
would go there how to leverage AI in
your business that would be a playlist
and how to
>> why would you only have one playlist
>> one playlist
>> you only have one playlist because you
want your audience to hey what is the
minimal number of videos they can
consume in order to know like and trust
you within a specific niche.
>> So like let's say you're going to post a
bunch of AI videos and Bitcoin videos,
right? The very first video over here
should let them know what your channel
is about and then everything else is
like okay it will be your macro trends
analysis of all these different mix.
Maybe you look at unemployment, you look
at Bitcoin, you look at XYZ XYZ, right?
Whatever you want to talk about.
>> Sure.
>> That would all go within the playlist
here. And and and the banner, right?
Right. You can see it's a similar color
scheme to like
>> it needs to be aligned with Got it.
>> Exactly. Right. So, and this is a really
easy change, but it will immediately
change the perception that people have
when
>> of what my channel is.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Of of of what your
channel is. And this isn't something
that takes super duper long
>> Yeah. to put together.
>> Right. And then in terms of the profile
picture, I'd also change the profile
picture because that's like you want it
to have like a clear face. This is a
personal brand. So, yeah. Yeah. Your
face should be clear and within the
profile picture it should also
um reflect the brand identity
>> there too. Right. But so like it should
also have like a simple pretty simple
color scheme there.
>> Yeah. Does that make sense? Yeah. What
is yours?
>> So like if you go online go online over
here right.
>> So like you can see the colors are the
colors are are pretty are pretty
similar.
>> Yeah. Got it. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. There there's a I can see that.
>> Yeah. There's like a fair face. Yep. But
>> yeah, there's a clear face and there's a
clear color scheme. Neither just being
AB tested, but in general, like you
could kind of like get a feel of what
the channel was at.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> So, change the profile photo to
something clearer.
>> Yeah. I I I would I would change it to
to something clearer that uh that
reflects your like a branding color
identity. So, there's that, right? And
then the last piece that I would leave
you with
>> is to just double down on on what's
already worked.
>> Okay.
>> Right. Yep. So,
>> so like doubling gun like that topic.
>> So like yeah for example like this topic
um this topic really worked
>> or if you want to bridge your current
audience right so there's like students
in that
>> unemployment is affecting how AI is
infecting unemployment I feel like that
would
>> yeah depends depends on like packaging
>> yeah that that unemployment is is like a
major uh keyword uh within your
audience. Okay,
>> right so like you you kind of have to do
a little a little bit of research there.
Yeah.
>> So, like kind of what I showed you uh in
the other channel, the species channel,
right? You can kind of see like what's
working within the niche and then you
can adapt some of that for yourself.
>> Got it. Right. So, like I'm I'm not sure
where where these specific thumbnails
came from, but it didn't look like they
were like super duper researched.
>> Right. Like um
>> Not at all.
>> Yeah. And for example like this this
brain one. Yeah.
>> Um like if you if you would have done
like a little bit of research and you
would to find a video like this
>> or you can see this is a different way
of of doing a grain which is 3.8 million
views. So you can see this is a viral
>> uh thumbnail format right and then like
depending on you know we can make it
red, you can make it blue, you can make
it green depending on your visual
identity and you can just like switch
this up
>> to
>> like what would best fit your audience.
and also like portray that. So like
there's multiple different ways of
portraying uh a specific idea,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And you can kind of see
um all of that there.
>> Yeah.
>> And and one of the things you also
mentioned that was difficult was
understanding how to monetize your
audience.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean monetization
isn't like the important thing right
now. I think right now it's building up
goodwill with cadence and then later
down like how know what are the best
ways to monetize.
>> Well, this that I mean once you that
depends on your goals, right?
>> Yeah. Like I think it makes tremendous
amount of sense from what you said that
hey like I'm just going to monetize down
the road. I think it makes a bunch of
sense to have a newsletter,
>> right? Yeah. like having a newsletter.
>> I think yeah, the next like set of
videos would be like funneling them into
a newsletter and then like I think that
that that's the goal like a throw out
monetization,
>> build a owned audience with Yeah. I I I
wouldn't necessarily draw monetization.
>> Okay. Okay. Because if you were to build
a newsletter, you can sell sponsorship
bots to that.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And like with something like
Beehive, that's that's really easy to do
these days,
>> right? And and that also like helps you
build goodwill and you also don't
necessarily need to like build a course
or have like a service or like have a
software that you want to sell,
>> right? Yeah. You could just be
monetizing the attention from uh from
the newsletter while also going to
Goodwill. So I wouldn't discount that as
like a 5 to 10 to 20k a month like cash
flow. Um that could make 20.
>> I I I I think you could, right? If the
if the newsletter is big enough, right?
Okay. If the newsletter is like how many
how many people are in your newsletter
right now?
>> Uh few thousand.
>> Yeah. Like if you were to get it to like
20,000 active readers, it's about a
dollar per viewer. Especially since
you're in a very high value niche.
>> Okay.
>> I bet the RPMs are are pretty decent
with the niche like four $47, maybe even
higher than that.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So, like I I don't think it's
unreasonable to say that if you have a
20,000 active readers of your content
that you couldn't sell sponsorship spots
and make anywhere between 15 to 20 grand
a month.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Without burning the goodwill because
you're only selling sponsorship spots,
>> right?
>> And if you wanted to do something and if
later on Yeah. I I can then introduce
other things. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. Yeah. I like that. I like that.
And plus, you're you're pretty active to
newsletter. Do you consistently post it?
>> Uh no. This is where this where we got
to the target exist right and like
commit to a cadence for that.
>> Yes. For YouTube videos, newsletters and
like
>> Yeah. I would say just focus on these
two things, right? YouTube videos and
newsletter because the newsletter is one
of my favorite strategies because you
own the audience,
>> right?
>> Right. You own the audience outside your
platform. So even if your YouTube
channel were to flatline and you were to
not post, you could still have that
audience outside. That's what I do. I
mean like in terms of like would you say
you're a lot clearer in terms of what
you have to do? Yeah. if you have any
questions.
>> No, definitely a lot clearer. Um, I
think yeah, as you as you mentioned,
like I got to redo the the homepage, the
the branding. I think this thing looks
like it has an identity crisis, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So, um, and uh, yeah, we got to align
this a lot better. And then, yeah, like
what what is what is my future audience,
you know, like how do I how do I bridge
current audience and then like keep
building the space of like new
viewership?
And then the cadence part like that is I
think that has been the biggest one that
I get to focus my time. Yeah. I I think
if you solve the cadence problem, right,
and if it's just a matter of okay,
placing better editors or if it's a
matter of, you know, having better
thumbnail designers or, you know, or or
having better like script writing or
like research systems, right, where
maybe it's getting more efficient these
AI tools, maybe it's bringing on a
researcher that's part-time to help you
put together your research for this,
right? And like your content for sure is
very research heavy, but it's also stuff
that you know college students will go
over and maybe even hire college
students to help you put research
together.
>> That's a Milford.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Get some get some interns to
help you put something together. Put a
bunch of research, put a bunch of stats
together that you can use.
>> Okay.
>> Like I don't think it would be crazy to
say that that might be a good move. And
like maybe that's
maybe that's kind of the step to getting
from two uploads to three uploads a
month.
>> Yeah. And to four uploads a month,
right? you know, kind of like scale
>> scaling up sudden Yeah.
>> linearly like that. Yeah. So the two
weeks like being very strict in terms of
like hey like video has to be delivered
in two weeks and chase the editor to go
and do it or chase yourself to go and
record it. Yeah.
>> Right. And having uh minimal setup so
it's easy for you to record on.
>> Yeah. I I I agree. Yeah. Especially if
I'm going to be traveling.